---
layout: post
title:      "Making a Beer Recipe Catalog using Ruby"
date:       2020-10-04 16:02:06 +0000
permalink:  making_a_beer_recipe_catalog_using_ruby
---


A month into this bootcamp and we have our first project: creating a Command Line Interface (CLI) application of our design that allows the user to access information based on a database we find through a public API.  It's the first assignment we have had where we choose the path we want to take with our code.  Even if members of our cohort choose the same API, the way in which each app is made is different despite having a similar structure overall.  In terms of the challenges of this assignment, one of the biggest ones was just getting the ball rolling.  Oftentimes, with papers or projects, my struggles often come from thinking too broadly.  I focus too much on the end product rather than the steps I need to take to reach that end goal.  As a result, I spent the first day of project week deciding what I wanted to use for my app.  I chose to create my app based on a catalog of 25 different brewing recipes from  the PunkBeer API.  One of the things that helped me make progress the most was the office hours held by our cohort leader for asking questions/needing help debugging our codes.  Through questions of my own as well as others, I began to develop ideas of how I wanted to create my app and write my code.  Where some people working using the same API as I did wrote their code to only show the beers and alcohol content(abv), or food pairings, or their description and tagline, I choose to show the beer, and the most basic things you require to make those beers (ingredients, boiling time and temp, etc.).  My code isn't perfect, and as a result some things I had to leave out otherwise it would become too complex, especially since I have not yet become completely profecient in Ruby due to the course's incredible pace.  What is good about the project and the code that I wrote is that creating the code forces me to gather a greater understanding for all of the concepts of Ruby.  Various types of methods (ie: setters, and getters), instance variables, classes, object orientation (just to name a few), are all tied in to the creation of this project and it can't truly be completed without an understanding of these concepts.  For the first major benchmark of this bootcamp, I have completed this project with a sense of accomplishment and pride knwoing that I have made a lot of progress since this couse began and learned plenty.  I'm really looking forward to creating more of my own unique code in the future.
